Data inaccuracy can be impacted by frontline staff
when inputting information.
If we continue from the previous example,
let's imagine the inventory manager
notices that midlines address was not updated.
To correct this the I.M. went into update
in the item master file.
However, they input the wrong address.
As a result, the information is still incorrect
and is impacted by the frontline staff.
For this reason it is critical to verify any updates
and information for the vendors,
as well as enter all information accurately.
Lack of data integrity can lead to incorrect quantities
on hand, entries and items on order,
as well as an increase in inventory costs
and long supply that sits on the shelf.
Ultimately, it will impact the budget for that area
possibly leading to lack of funds for other important items.